# CIDM6330
Repository for CIDM6330 

## PROBLEM DESCRIPTION
Industrial construction projects are incredibly large and complex undertakings, often involving hundred of millions of manhours, tens of millions of materials, and use supply chains that literally cover the globe. 
Doing this complex work means that the team has to have a firm grasp of a tremendous number of variables. Among these are the path/sequence of construction, organizational constraints (like procurement processes), material availability, regulatory constraints, engineering data constraints, 
labor constraints, and equipment constraints. Couple all of this with the need for safety, heavy lift, testing, permit to work, scaffolding, and subcontractor management and then take all of the data necessary to track and manage that and spread it across a hundred disparate systems. What you have is a recipe for chaos. 

## DOMAIN 
Industrial Construction including Engineering, Procurement, and Construction and the technical sub-disciplines of subcontract management, constraint management, materials management, scaffold management, permit to work management, safety management, commissioning and turnover management, and freight and logistics management.

## PERSONAL INTEREST
I have spent the past 20 years of my career working in this space and I've seen this problem manifest iteslf in dozens of ways over that time. My personal interest is to see companies in this space, who are dealing with billions of dollars, thousands of employees, and untold risk, have access to a tool that will provide early visibility into things that can go wrong, and improve the probability of a positive and profitable outcome. 

## SYSTEM DESCRIPTION
Since the scope, responsibility, and ultimately liability for each of these critical subdisciplines lies with the business unit or joint venture partner responsible for that scope, and those entities have bespoke, domain specific, "System of Record" solutions implemented, usually at very significant expense. We cannot pretend to adopt a "one system to rule them all" architecture, nor can we influence the "System of Record" for these domains. Rather, we have to let accounting systems be responsible for accounting, materials management systems for materials management, document management systems be responsible for document management, etc. A fundamental reality of the project is that there is very little value in real-time data; however, there is truly significant value in having a consistent and periodic snapshot from all of these systems at prescribed intervals. The system I would like to build is a secure, cloud-based data aggregation system that can consume regular and periodic feeds from systems that do not have API support or invoke API integrations for those that do. I would like to create or leverage an existing low-code/no-code plaftform that will allow project technologists to create these connections, create and schedule the requisite ETL transformations on the data, and then store the resultant dataset(s) in a way that meaningful data analytics, dashboards, and reports could be used. Once the data wrangling and storage piece is complete, I would like to develop a standard and consistent set of reports for each of these project areas such that project leadership can have a reliable and consistent mechanism for understanding where things are going well, where things are not going well, and through the use of predictive and prescriptive analytics, provide tools for the project team to perform course corrections. 
